Hey, everyone, and welcome back.
So last time we talked about just micro interactions around like hovering, clicking, and sometimes
I like to actually make just animations for great feedback.
And one example of that is you saw my little kind of animation of my bouncing ball, this little notification
bubble that was bouncing on a heart.
And I thought that was really cool.
And I think we should probably recreate that for our own project, maybe like a little bouncing ball
for our cart or something like that.
Now there are different ways to create that.
You can go really simple.
What I did for something like this was much more in depth.
If we think about motion in general and animation in general, it must follow the laws of gravity.
So what that means is if we think about how a ball bounces up and down, let me just create a circle
because I don't really want to mess with that frame over here because this is where our animation is
actually.
So I'll show you how that works.
But the one way we can think about like just gravity in general, when we think about a ball, when
a ball hits a ground, what happens to it?
It doesn't just look like this when it hits the ground, it kind of squishes just a bit.
You don't see it and may not switch that much.
It may just like shrink just a little bit like that, but still does.
And when a ball propels itself upward.
It stretches depending on how fast it's going.
So if we're thinking about something like a really squishy ball, that's how it would look due to gravity
and velocity and all different factors due to physics.
So what will happen is if it bounces up and then reaches just like the max height it can go, it will
start to just recede and return to normal.
And then after pause in the top and then start dropping down and then hit the ground like that, and
then same thing.
And over time it will gradually stop bouncing, hopefully.
Now we need to apply that to our animation, so let's just delete that.
Now, there are different ways we can go about doing that.
We can make something really simple, just something like moving up and down.
And that's I'm going to show you how to create something really simple like that, and I'll show you
an example of what I created that followed all the laws of physics and just gravity in general.
So let me jump right in.
I have a little frame here called notification, and within that frame I have a little layer, not original
naming, but I have a little layer that is going to act as our notification bubble.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to select a plug in, a very special plug in that is and it
is called Fake Motion.
And here it is.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to my plug ins.
Go to fig mocean and open fig mocean and it's going to open up like an overlayed window.
There it is.
And you'll see our layers within that frame.
There's only one layer.
Now, let me just give you a little walk around and what fig motion is.
There's a timeline.
If you've ever used something like After Effects or Premiere Pro or anything like that.
Screen flow, they all have timelines.
Now you can animate all these different properties like the x y coordinates with hey, all that kind
of stuff, and you can animate it based off of keyframes.
So these are in 100 millisecond increments and.
That is basically it.
What you want to do is you want to set like a keyframe and then go ahead and you can set another keyframe.
And when you click into something like that, you can adjust it.
So this will move on the x axis and this will move on the Y axis.
Now, when you're done, you can actually just play and it will.
It will show you what's happening over there.
So what we're going to do is I'm just going to give you an example.
Mm hmm.
So if I were to just look at this, I'm going to remove these.
And I'm going to select that the why I want to move it up and down.
And if we play.
We'll see that it moves down.
That's a terrible animation, but you can see that we can start creating much more complex animations
from something like this.
So let's jump right in.
I'll show you a couple of little tricks that you can do along the way and what happens after you're
done exporting it.
I'm going to create something really, really simple.
I'm going to bring that down.
I'm going to update my layers because any changes over here will not be updated here unless you update
them manually.
So I'm just going to start at zero and I'm just going to.
It doesn't really matter.
You can select just different points in time.
So I'm just going to let 200 milliseconds and I'm going to select another keyframe.
And what I can do here is I can.
Go into this and I'm going to type.
How about just 20?
And you can see what type of animation.
So I don't like doing linear.
You can do custom if we wanted to.
And it'll give us like a little graph.
We can play with that if we wanted to.
But if you didn't feel like actually working with a custom, just the easing, you can just select ease
in, ease out, ease in and out.
So for this animation, I am moving upwards.
Let's check what E's out looks like.
So we're going to play.
So that was really quick.
So let's just see what the animation looks like.
So you can see it's pretty abrupt and it slows down.
Now, if we use something like these in.
So.
It was very.
Very slow to move and then it's gradually cut just faster as it moved in and out.
So we can just do ease in and out because if we're thinking about gravity at the most basic sense.
You can do that.
So I'm going to just do I'm going to go to 1/2.
So it's going to take 1/2 to get from top to bottom.
But I'm going to make sure this is much larger in space.
So.
Let's even go even further.
Um hmm.
Let's do ten.
So that looks good.
So if we play that.
Do you see how it eased in and out?
So it was kind of like it was slowly moving upward.
Then when it got to the top, it was slower.
Now, when we come back down.
Scroll all the way to the side.
So I'm going to go all the way to 2 seconds.
Actually, at the top, I may just wait.
So I may wait for like.
Just a bit.
And when I get up here, I'm going to select.
We're just going to stay.
We just stay.
Ease in and out.
We're not going to move.
And then we are going to go to 2.2 seconds, which is over here and we're going to go all the way back
down.
So what I need to do is I need to select my y coordinates and I'm going to see the original.
I'm just going to select that.
And I'm going to paste that within here.
And when I think about actually like something dropping, it's going to ease out.
Actually, it's going to ease into it and then it's going to drop really quick.
So let's see how that looks so up.
Down.
Sometimes you just have to fiddle with these to get the right just the right animation.
See, I didn't like that one.
You saw how it slowed down at the end.
That makes no sense in terms of gravity.
So I'm thinking like, you know, when you hold, you get up to the top, hold and down.
So we can now start to fine tune this a bit.
Maybe that hold is only.
Just there.
Maybe we start bringing it in a bit more.
So we got at seven seven.
700 milliseconds and we can do like a half millisecond hold.
And then, hmm, we will go to 13.
The drop should be maybe a little more quicker.
So I'm going to go grab that keyframe and drag it all back.
The only problem is this doesn't have a way to zoom in and out and grab keyframes, like just dragging
and just drag to select, which kind of isn't the best.
But this is great, just working within Figma.
So there we go.
We have like a little a little animation going now.
We can even go a little bit further if we think about so this is more linear.
Now I'm just going to exit out of fig motion.
So we have a little animation here.
Now, let's take a look at this one.
Where whereas fake motion.
Although right there.
Now we're at zero.
You can see all the different types of key frames I have in here just to get it right.
And as you can tell, I've created like a little bounce.
So it's going to squish and propel itself forward or upward.
Stop.
Return back to normal size and propel itself downward.
And it's going to shrink in width and look much more elongated.
And it's going to hit the ground again.
It's going to shrink and it's going to do the same thing.
But this time, if you notice when it reached that top height.
And then came down for the second bounce.
We've lost a little bit of speed.
We've lost a little bit of force, and we're not going to jump as high this time.
We're not going to bounce as high.
We're going to bounce just a little bit and then just a smidge.
Let's see what the ending of this looks like.
So just a smidge.
And then we're just going to hold.
So that way when we do create this loop bubble gif, it's going to hold for like a couple of seconds
afterward before it bounces again.
So it's not like crazy bouncing in the corner of your screen and people are going to be really annoyed
with it.
So let's take a look.
There goes.
And it's going to hold.
Then it will bounce again.
Boom!
So that's a quick little way to do it.
I'm going to actually show you how to break this down just a little bit more and with this one in our
next video.